>> My name is Wade Tregaskis.
I work in the Developer Tools team, working
on performance tools and primarily Shark,
which is of course the subject of today's talk.
And how you can use that on Mac and iPhone applications.
So this is the bouquet of things, hopefully
you're all here for at least one of these things.
If you're not, you should be, but last
chance to run off to a different session.
And I'm not going to go through
them, it's pretty self-explanatory.
Let's just straight to what Shark can
do, how Shark can address these needs.
Shark has a bunch of different tools.
We're going to talk about only a few today,
but we're going to cover the main ones.
The first is of course time profiling.
This simply shows you where your CPU time
is going when your programs are executing.
It's that simple.
It's the most general tool.
It applies in pretty much all situations.
It's usually where you start profiling.
And it's going to be the focus of the
first part of our presentation today.
In the second part of our presentation, we'll look at
system trace, which is also a very useful tool generally,
but it particularly excels at multithreading problems,
locking, anything you can kind of come across dealing
with lots of threads and system interactions.
System calls, VM faults, all those sort of things.
Towards the end of our talk, we'll just briefly touch
on another two tools which together are basically
about showing how you're using the memory in the
machine, how you're using the processor cache,
whether you're fitting inside it effectively.
And how you're using the processor buff, buss,
sorry, whether you're bandwidth limited for example.
Now the last tool that I want to mention
is a tool by itself that you can run
on your binary, but it's actually more than that.
It's throughout Shark, it's a static analysis engine.
This looks at the machine code of your program and does some
calculations and looks at it, looks for common problems,
patents that we recognize, things we know about.
And it'll provide you things like these tips,
which will tell you hey, there's something here,
maybe you want to look at it, think about it.
And often it'll even tell you what you can do to work
around that or try something else that might be faster.
So that all said, let's look at just a few
things we should do before we actually go
to the demo and start firing up Shark.
First up, debugger applications.
It's of course a pain to be trying to profile something
that's crashing or just generally misbehaving.
But the more important thing is that if your program
is not actually doing what it's supposed to be doing,
if it's not finished, it's not quite, you know
doing exactly what it'll do when you ship,
then profiling it could be pointless or worse
it could be detrimental because what you see
and what you optimize may not actually be meaningful,
it may not be something that's a
problem when you finish the program.
So just debug it first, get it
doing what it's supposed to be doing
and then start worrying about performance and optimization.
That all said and done, when you do go to profile it, you
need to ensure that you're profiling the release build.
You want to have all your optimizations
on, any additional compile settings, flags,
whatever it is that you do before you
ship your application to the end user.
Again, you want to be profiling what the end user is seeing.
With two exceptions.
Note here, if you've turned on F limit frame
pointers, and if you don't know what that is,
don't worry about it, it's off by default.
But if you have turned it on, you want to
create a separate configuration for Shark
that simply turns that one setting alone off.
Simply because although it's a valid optimization, the
tradeoff is that, it prevents collection of call stacks,
which is a real problem when you're
trying to analyze the performance.
Secondly, you need to ensure that Shark can
see your source files, your symbol information,
so you'll be able to see your function names and whatnot.
Now again, if you're using Xcode, you've created a project
file with Xcode 3 or later, then this is automatic.
You don't have to worry about this.
However, if you're using our Xcode
file from a previous version of Xcode,
or just for whatever reason you're not using Dwarf
with DSIMM as your debug format, you'll need to go in
and tweak all the settings appropriately to make
sure you're not stripping your symbol information,
you're actually generating debug info, that sort of thing.
Now that all done, you can then
fire up Shark and start profiling.
But although you can just profile sort of
speculatively and just start looking around,
the best way to do it is to have in mind what you want.
And that really boils down to some kind of
metric, something that you want to improve.
This could be frames per second, time it
takes to complete some task, throughput.
Whatever is appropriate for your program and
whatever seems to be the performance issue of course.
Now having done that, you then of course want to
take a measurement, a baseline that you can compare
against after you make changes to ensure not
just that you did actually make an improvement,
but sort of quantify that and get an idea of your progress.
And this is really to put it simply,
this is about coming up with a benchmark.
Something that you can run reliably and reproducibly
on your application to get numbers after each change.
And I just want to point out here, although we're
not going to go into the how to do it in the session
because we don't have time, you can
automate Shark in a wide variety of ways.
So if you come up with a benchmark that's a
Shell script or an Apple script or some kind
of you know automated benchmark, you can actually have
Shark collect profiles automatically as part of that script.
If you wanted, if you're interested
in that, check out the Shark manual.
There's a whole section on it.
But I'm afraid we don't have time for it today.
But let's go straight to the demo machine.
And fire up Shark and start taking some profiles.
[ Background noise ]
So I'm going to launch Shark.
Now when you first open Shark, this is what you get.
This is the main window.
This is where you can start and stop
Shark control profiling using this button.
Choose which tool you want to use, which configuration.
And this is where you choose the target of your
profiling, either the whole system or a particular process
or you know you can launch your process, specify
command line arguments, all that sort of thing.
Now, if I wanted to for example
profile MDWorkA, I'd be set to go now.
I just click start and off I go.
In this case though for the first demo, what I'm
going to do is profile a little iPhone application.
Now I apologize that I don't have a projector here.
This is what it looks like, if you're off the back.
It looks more interesting on the phone,
which has a microphone of course.
It's just displaying the WAV form.
So that's going to be my demo app.
Now to profile that, I go to the sampling
menu and choose networks/iPhoneprofiling.
Now it disables the local settings because
these apply only to the current machine.
Instead I have a list of all the connected iPhones and any
Macs that are on the network, running Shark in remote mode.
And I can just click use on whichever
one or more of those I want to control.
It launches Shark on the device, gets it ready
for profiling and when it does that, in a second,
I didn't appease the demo gods apparently.
[ Period of silence ]
Would you believe that this worked
perfectly every other time?
[ Laughter ]
All right, well anyway, well let me try a few things.
[ Period of silence ]
First off, go away Shark.
All right.
So in theory, you click this and
a few seconds later, it'll work.
[ Period of silence ]
Oh, it figures.
All right, this is why we take sessions ahead
of time, so we can just skip that whole step.
Anyway, imagine that this was working, you'd
see the same thing here that you see up here.
Under the configuration you can
choose which tool you want to use.
Under the target you could choose
which process or the whole system.
And then you could still use the start
and stop button to then control profiling.
So let me go grab a session that I took earlier.
Now I'm going to take, this is a
session I took on your iPhone 3GS.
And we probably won't have time, but I want to point out
just while this is loading, oops, when I relaunch Shark.
That the 3GS, it's a different processor.
It has more memory.
It's a very different phone.
So if you are doing phone stuff and you're worried
about performance, you really want to grab a 3GS phone.
Oh, come on.
[ Period of silence ]
Ah.
It's just one of those days.
What's that?
Reinstall Windows?
Yeah.
[ Laughter ]
Ok, so this is a session that I took earlier on the
one in a million chance that this would go wrong.
And this is something like what you're going
to see when you first profile your application.
So this is, this is ready.
We can now go through and we can start looking at
this, seeing what it's telling us, start optimizing.
But before we do, I want to jump back
to the slides because I want to go
through what time profiling is, just really quickly.
Just so you understand what it is that you're
seeing and where this data is coming from.
So we jump back to the slides.
So the way time profiling works
is Shark comes along periodically,
every millisecond, ten milliseconds, something like that.
And it takes a sample.
And in a nutshell a sample is just the call stacks
of the target threads at that moment in time.
Now this is quite similar to GDB for example,
if you stop your program periodically
to see what it's doing and look at the back trace.
However, a little different.
Shark will also record any kernel stacks or driver stacks.
This is time spent in the kernel or the
drivers directly on behalf of your program.
So that's something you'll see
that you might not be used to.
But more than that, what makes this a profiling
tool is that we take all these call stacks
and we combine them into what we call a call tree.
And this is basically a union merge of all the call stacks.
And this lets you see at a higher
level where you're spending your time,
what functions are executing while you're profiling and
of course how you got to them through the call tree.
Now along with that of course,
we record some statistics based
on how many times we see that function
while we're profiling.
Now this is probably pretty similar or pretty
familiar I should say to a lot of people
if you've used other profiling tools,
CPU sampler, tools in other platforms.
But one thing you may not be familiar
with is these two different numbers,
these two different columns we have here, self and total.
Now this is showing slightly different
things that are useful in different context.
So let me just go over what they
are, just to make it just clear.
Because it's not necessarily intuitive.
Self includes only the time in the
function itself, not including any functions
that it calls, just in that function itself.
Total on the other hand includes not just the time
self, but also all that time in the sub functions.
So let me just go through just an example,
just to make this a bit more concrete.
If this is our sample code that we took this profile
from, then if you're looking at the prepare function here,
the 20% of self time corresponds roughly to this loop here.
This is inside prepare itself doing
math or something, whatever it's doing.
The other 20% of prepares total time is
actually in the MALIK function that it calls.
So that corresponds to this bit of code just here.
Now I wanted to point this out really
clearly because it's, as I said,
it's really important to understand what the difference is
because you use these different
columns in different contexts.
And sometimes you use them together to
nut out some really tricky problems.
Now that all said, that's pretty
much how time profiling works.
But there are some caveats, now the
most important thing to understand
about time profiling in Shark is that it's not a trace.
It is not a function trace.
If you used other tools, they might present data that looks
very similar, but they could be using function tracing.
It's a different method.
And there's tradeoffs, there's pros and cons to each one.
But what this means really in Shark is that for example if
you have this execution here on the top, the top one here,
that's what your program is really doing over time.
Now the white lines we're using to denote
where Shark comes in and takes a sample.
What Shark is going to see as a result
is actually this timeline on the bottom.
Now that looks different obviously.
So why is that?
What is happening here?
In the first case, you've got these functions
that are running for a relatively brief period.
So they actually fall between two sample points.
So Shark just doesn't see them.
It doesn't know they existed, it
doesn't account for them at all.
On the other hand, you have these functions here on
the other side, which maybe be quite short functions,
may have only taken microseconds, yet they just
happen to fall coincidently on a sample point.
Now Shark can only assume when it sees them
that they were running for the entire interval
and that's why it spreads them out like that.
So in this case, it's over accounting for them.
Now the good thing is of course that
these things are complete opposites
and when you take a number of samples,
they actually average out.
And this is the basis of you know statistical sampling.
If you get enough samples, a statistically
significant number of samples,
then it's still showing you what's actually
a very accurate picture of what's going on.
Nonetheless, there is you know one
down side that we just can't avoid
with doing this statistically as
opposed to actual function tracing.
And that is that we don't know in Shark how
often you call a function, how many times.
We can tell you how long you spend in
it in total but not whether that was
in all one call or spread out over a million calls.
And that sort of thing can be very useful, but it's not
something that Shark's time profiling will tell you.
So, just something to be aware of.
The second thing, the second caveat is that time
profiling, it's nice and simple, it's very general,
but it's really just showing you
where you're spending your time.
It's not going to necessarily tell you straight out why
you're spending your time there, why your code is slow,
why your algorithm, you know is doing what it's doing.
So of course knowing where you're
spending your time, that's half the battle.
But the other half is interpreting those
results and knowing how to fix them.
And that just comes down to experience and a bit of
wisdom and having dealt with similar problems before.
So we can't instill that in you in just one short
session, but in the demos we'll run through a bunch
of common problems that you might see
and also hopefully give you a kick start,
let you know what you're seeing in
a general typically time profile.
And along those lines, I just want to
lay down some sort of rules of thumb.
These aren't without exception, but
they're general things to keep in mind,
sort of goals to have when you're time profiling.
The first one is just intuitive.
You want to make any given process,
any given task take less time.
That's you know obvious.
An extension of that, if you're going for throughput
in particular, you want to be using the CPUs as much
as possible to get as much work as physically possible done.
Then you want to avoid blocking.
Blocking is where you are waiting on something,
so you're sitting there, you're not using the CPU.
It's time wasted.
Now a third rule and this is a little more nuanced, it's
really important to prioritize the changes you make,
the optimizations you attempt based not just on how
much time is going into a particular part of the code,
but how much effort it's going to take to optimize that.
Meaning if you get, if it's going to take
you a month to optimize one bit of code,
but in that same month you could optimize ten other
bits of code that all told will have a greater benefit,
then obviously you do the ten little bits of code.
So you know fairly intuitive, but it's something that takes
a bit of practice to recognize different types of problems,
know which ones are going to take the most amount of time
and which ones are likely to give you the most benefit.
But with these rules in mind, now
let's go back to the demo machine.
And let's start looking at the results
that we talked just a moment ago.
Or at least that I talked a while ago, but
let's pretend that they came from a moment ago.
So this is our call tree, this is actually
looking at the call tree from the bottom up.
So we're seeing all of the leaf
functions in the tree which is
where we're actually sitting there
spinning and doing our time.
And if we expand these, we can see how we got there.
So drawer view, calls drawOscilloscope
and we can go right back up the tree,
all the way right back to our main
function where everything originates.
Now, let's look at this particular example.
So we've got drawOscilloscope, that's
taking up nearly 17% of our time.
So that's obviously something that we want
to look at, that's right up here at the top.
But above that we have this GLI destroy context.
Now this is part of the GL engine.
I don't particularly know what
it is, I'm not an OpenGL expert.
But it's taking up 20% of my time, so
I really want to know what's going on.
Now if I look at what called it,
supposedly it called itself.
Seems strange, and it called itself again and again.
I'm pretty sure this function's not recursive.
And obviously this is a bit of a canned example
because I know that this function is not recursive.
So this is clearly not accurate.
Now, in situations like this where I'm
a bit suspect about what I'm seeing,
a really good way to actually verify this
is to go over to the advance drawer here.
Now if this isn't visible, you can bring it up by
going to the window menu and show advanced settings.
And I'm going to turn on show symbol length.
Now this adds a length column and
this is showing me the length in bytes
of the actual machine code for this function.
Not the source code, but the machine code.
So this is telling me that GLI destroy
context is 1.1 megabytes for one function.
Yeah. I'm going to call shenanigans on that.
I don't believe it for one second.
I happen to know from digging into this deeper,
so this is just a, just a tip that this is bogus,
this is completely wrong because this library
doesn't export all of its symbol information.
So Shark looks at it, it sees a sample in it and
it just picks the nearest function that it can see.
Now in this case, because there's so little symbol
info, it's picked one that probably completely off.
It's probably not calling this function at all.
So this is, this is pretty useless.
We can't see what's going on inside this library.
The time spent is accurate.
But this call stack is, is meaningless.
Now that's a bummer.
That's you know not great.
But in any case, this is a system library.
This is something that you can't even look at
the source code, let alone make any changes to.
So there's not necessarily a lot of merit in being
able to see what's going on inside it anyway.
What we really care about is how we're calling it.
What API we're using, because that's something
that we can change in our application to optimize.
So what I'm going to do is make use of Shark's data mining.
Now there's a lot of different things
you can do, little data mining things.
Now in this case, what I want to do is charge, sorry
I should say this is a contextual menu obviously
so I just right click on this, on
the library or the function name.
In this case, I want to charge this library to its cause.
Now what that means is it's going to take all the samples
that we're seeing in this library and instead account
for them in whatever other library or whatever other
function in our code actually called into there.
So when I do that, you can see that there's no more
GL engine entries here and that function is gone.
Instead, we have this new GL drawer
arrays which wasn't even visible before
and our drawOscilloscope method is now showing that
it's taking 17% when we account for that GL engine time.
Now in this case I can see that GL Drawer
Arrays, see it reckons its 36 bytes long,
that's much more plausible, so I'm going to believe this.
But again, in a similar sort of
thing, I can't do much about this.
I don't really care that GL Drawer
Arrays is taking 19% itself.
I care more about the fact that I'm calling it.
So what I'm going to do is charge
this again and now you can see
that this drawOscilloscope function,
that is taking up 40% of my time.
So clearly that's where I was calling GL Drawer Arrays.
And now I've sort of narrowed it down to of the code
that I can change, 40% of my time is spent here.
This is obviously the place I'm going to
look first to really try and optimize.
So let's optimize it.
How do we know what's going on?
Why is this slower?
So I'm going to double click on it.
And this takes me to the source of the function.
And you can see that the source is annotated, it's
highlighted, showing me the breakdown of which lines
within that function are taking the most time.
Now these percentages here are of
the total for just this one function.
So if 37% of this function's time is going into
GL Drawer Arrays, we kind of already figured that.
But here we have 38% of our time on
the conditional part of a fault loop.
Now that, that should strike most people
here as pretty weird I would imagine
because you don't normally expect your
fault loops conditions to take time.
You'd expect this math to take time.
This is doing some floating-point calculations.
And we see that it's taking some
time but not nearly as much as this.
So what's going on here?
In this case, just looking at the source isn't enough.
I don't, I can't tell just from
looking at this what is going on.
So what I'm going to do is dig down another, another
level and actually look at the assembly as well.
You can see that the highlighted line here
corresponds to these highlighted symbols here.
If I choose a different line, it highlights different ones.
So this is our loop here, this indented block just here.
And this is the condition part.
And you can see now that there's one instruction
here is taking up nearly 36% of this function's time.
Now, although this may be a bit scary because
this is all strange pneumonics and lots of these,
I don't even know ARM assembly myself to be honest.
So I don't expect you to and the good
thing is you don't necessarily need to.
In this case, I was able to figure out what was going
on without ever looking up an ARM reference manual.
I looked at this instruction which I
guessed was some kind of branch instruction,
presumably this is what loops back
to the start of our loop here.
And I saw over here that Shark had quite a few
things to say about this, this little loop.
These exclamation marks are Shark's
static analysis engine that we talked
about before, telling me that it's noticed something.
Something that might be interesting.
So for this particular problem, I noticed those run
just here, it's not quite on this line, but it's nearby.
So I click on that.
And I, don't worry about reading through the details
of this, this is just specific to this exact problem.
But the important thing is that this is telling me
that this takes a minimum of 20 cycles to c omplete.
So this is probably accounting for some of that time.
There's like a delay here after we
execute this before we can execute this.
Even more useful, even more telling was when I
expand this so you can see, this stall thing,
you'll see a lot of these throughout your code.
They're not necessarily bad but they are when you get
to big numbers in the, you know double digits here.
So this is telling me that before
this instruction could execute,
every single time through the loop,
it had to wait 51 clock cycles.
Now that's 51 clock cycles where nothing else was happening.
It's just wasted time.
The reason for this is very esoteric and it's related
through the particular chip that's in the 3GS.
And I'm not going to go through the details here.
But suffice to say this indicates to me why it's happening,
what's going on at least in a broad sense and if I go
through and read this in detail, I can actually
dig down and I figured out what's going on.
Again it's specific to this architecture
and I was able to figure out how to fix it.
Now I don't want to go through the
details of how to fix this one problem.
But that's the general idea.
You find out what functions you're spending most of
your time in and then you figure out why by looking
at the source shoe and if necessary
going right down to the assembly.
I'll point out though, just before I leave this,
if you do need to know what the assembly means,
what these pneumonics are, you can
highlight the instruction you're interested
in and click the ASN help button down here.
And this pops up the instructions that
reference that manual for that instruction.
[ Applause ]
So, in fact, perhaps you've realized, this is actually
new in Shark the ARM instruction set reference.
We've had the Intel in PowerPC ones for a while.
So that's a good way to just sort of
ease yourself into it, if you have to.
Alright, so let's assume that we are either going
to optimize that or we did optimize it or whatever.
But we no longer want to look at drawOscilloscope.
We want to look at the next biggest
thing, the next hot spot.
What I'm going to do is use data mining again, this time
I'm going to remove call stacks with that function in it.
This is going to remove those entirely, just like
charging did except it doesn't bother to account
for them anywhere, they just filtered out completely.
So when I do that, that function disappears and all our
percentages sort of just scale up to fill in that space.
And now I can move on to the next thing.
Now, having said that, the next
thing is this unknown library.
Now you may see this because Shark doesn't have symbol
information, well that's what it means and that may be
that Shark couldn't find the symbols for
your application or something like that.
However, on the phone, there's one particular library as
such that you don't have symbol information for at all
and that's the kernel and all the drivers.
So I can see here I have symbols for my application,
I have symbols for all these other system libraries.
It's a pretty good guess, a pretty good bet that
this is the kernel time that I talked about.
And if you expand this call tree,
it's just unknowns all the way down.
And then it's totals.
So that's not useful to us.
It would be nice to be able to see that, but we can't.
So I'm pointing it out simply so when you see this
in your own profiles, you know kind of what it is
and that there's not a lot you can do about it
Just ignore it and it's not necessarily
code you can change directly anyway.
But you can influence it by looking at other things.
And there's some other tools actually that
we'll use later than can help you out with this.
Now, so ignoring that one.
You see that there's a whole bunch of
other things here that we're doing.
There's a lot of audio sort of stuff happening here.
And going through every single one of these, one by
one, looking at the source, it's one way to do it.
It's a little tedious though.
I don't want to have to analyze every single function.
Instead I could step back up through
and see how I got there,
where I'm calling this from, try
and get kind of a bigger picture.
But a much simpler way to do that
is to just switch over to tree view.
So I go down to the popup menu here and choose tree view.
This is viewing the exact same call tree
except now I'm looking at it from the top down.
So I'm starting at the, the main
function or your pthread body and drilling
down through all the functions progressively.
And if I fold some of these up, this gives me a
much better high-level idea of what's going on.
So for algorithms that encompass
more than just one function,
this is a great way to see how
much the total time is all told.
[ Period of silence ]
And I mean that's pretty much it.
That's, that's how you use heavy view, how you use
tree view, you've seen how to drill down into things.
I want to move on to a second demo application we have.
Now this is called Image Aware.
It's a demo app you may have seen in some other sessions.
We've been banding it around a bit this year.
If you haven't seen it, let me just run it once.
All it does is it has a bunch of PDF files on disk, which
it reads in, it goes through every single page of them,
generates a little thumbnail for them
and then sticks them into this view.
That's all it does.
So this is something that you would
think would be very parallelizable.
You could make it concurrent and
we tried a few different methods.
Ultimately settling on GCD, of course, the new and shiny.
Now, notice that this is taking
about 6 seconds with just one thread.
That's the original single threaded implementation.
So GCD, this is a Mac Pro by the
way, top of the line Mac Pro.
So 16 virtual cores.
So this should be 16 times faster, right?
I wouldn't have asked the question
if it was going to be, would I?
2.2 seconds, so it's over twice as fast.
It's an improvement.
It was definitely a big improvement,
definitely worth doing, but it's not 16 times.
And this is our motivation for profiling it now.
We want to know why we didn't get
nearly as much speed up as we expected.
So what I'm going to do again is I'm going to take a time
profile of this, just so I can see where our time is going.
And I'm going to use the keyboard shortcut for
this, the option escape to start and stop profiling,
just so that I can use the mouse instead to
control this application at the same time.
So I'll start profiling, start it
running, let it run to completion.
My bad, I missed a step.
I would like to profile my application
not MDWorker in this case.
Try that again.
[ Period of silence ]
Alright. So now Shark will do its analysis, pull
in all the symbol info, all that kind of stuff.
And here's our session.
So let me just switch back to heavy view initially.
Now the process is the same as before.
You can go through this and look at different things.
But I, I'm picking this particular example because it's
a very interesting one and this is a very common thing
that you'll see, especially as you
go into multithreaded applications.
Now we've got some time here spent in
inflate fast and this Lexus scan thing.
This is actually reading the PDF, decompressing it.
This is good in a sense.
This is actually doing the work we intend to do.
And we've got some more stuff down here and whatever.
But of course the biggest two things are these two here.
Now these aren't, these are kernel functions, they're
not anything that we're calling intentionally.
And I want to explain what they are
because you'll see them sometimes.
This set interrupts enabled function typically
indicates that you're context switching a lot.
And our context switching isn't
necessarily bad, but it has overhead.
So if you do it a lot, that overhead
adds up and it slows you down.
So that's, that's the first hint that something
might be going on that we could optimize.
The second this is this VM Map stuff.
Now this is virtual memory, VM.
It's to do with VM faults.
But this is not particularly helpful because this is
the end of the call stack, this is all kernel stuff.
So alright, we've got 10% of our time spent here, but
time profiles aren't really telling us a whole lot.
Now this is actually leading on to system trace.
But before we go to that, there is something else we can
do just with time profiling and I want to take a step back
to explain why I decided to do it before I do.
I look down here at this number here, this is how
many samples Shark took while it was profiling.
So this is a 16 core machine, by default Shark samples
1000 times a second, so if we're running some Macs,
we're using CPUs to the limit, we
should get 16000 samples a s`econd.
This profile was for about two or three
seconds, so I'd expect at least 50000 samples.
Instead we're getting 14000.
This simply means that we're not
actually running for most of the time.
A normal time profile only records a call
stack, a sample if the thread is running.
If it's idle, if it's blocked, if it's
doing nothing, then it doesn't record it.
This is telling me that while this is valid,
this is what we're doing when we are running,
our biggest problem here is that
we're not running most of the time.
So for that, I instead want to do a variation of the
basic time profile called Time Profile or Thread States.
Now this produces data that looks much the same.
I'm just going to record it while I talk.
Except that it records whether we're running or not.
Oops. Ignore that.
And this shows us something very different.
And this is actually much more useful because
now we're seeing over all our total time,
not just the time we are running, but when
we were blocked, and if I can find it here,
here's our inflate methods that we saw before.
They were 6% of the time profile, but in the grand
scheme of things, in wall clock time if you like,
they're a percent, they're insignificant.
They're completely dwarfed by these
first five functions here.
Now these are all system things.
They're not things you generally call directly.
But I want to explain all five of them because again
these are things that you're going to see in your code
and it's really helpful to know what they mean because
they each indicate particular types of problems.
The first one is workqueuekernreturn.
If I pull this back, there's not a lot to it.
This is a workqueue thread as you might find
underlying things like GCD and certain other things.
It's used a lot throughout the system.
They tend to pop up automatically,
system libraries use them a lot.
Workqueuekernreturn is a system call that these
kind of sit in when they're waiting for more work.
So this is telling me that 40% or 35% of my
time is spent waiting for something to do.
So that's, that's the first indication of a problem,
that we're not perhaps enqueueing enough work
or we have some kind of bottleneck
that's actually preventing us
from getting a full 16 cores' worth of things to do.
This next thing, assumingforwaitsignaltrap, if
I dig down it's perhaps more self-explanatory.
This is called from within the locking
functions in the pthreads library.
And it basically says that there's lock contention.
Multiple threads are trying to take
the same lock at the same time.
And all the time spent in here is waiting for that lock
to be released by another thread so we can move forward.
Again this is dead time.
This means that we're waiting, we're doing nothing useful.
And this is bad.
You pretty much never want to see this in your programs.
This indicates lock contention, which we don't want.
And it's just wasted time.
Similarly this one is a slightly different pthread, kind
of mutual exclusion thing, pthread condition variables.
Same deal.
It represents time that we're waiting
for that condition variable to signal us.
We don't really want to be spending any time in that.
Kevent, much the same kind of thing.
Again you can probably guess that
this underlies GCD as well.
This is again, it's in the, it's sitting in the kernel
when it's doing this, waiting for an event to come in.
So this is idle time.
And there's another assumingforwardfunction.
So I think you get the idea at this point.
All of these things are telling me that most
of our time we're waiting and more importantly,
most of our time we're waiting on a
lock or a pthread condition variable.
So I would say at a guess, that the big
problem with this program is lock contention.
Now in this time profile, I can drill back through these
functions to see what's using that lock and in this case,
it's this rendering library is where most of the time is.
Now the time profile here is useful.
I can drill all the way back to
my own code, right down here.
So you can see this is you know, somewhere underneath
the code that actually creates the pages in memory.
And I can perhaps optimize this.
I can look at what I'm doing here, try and find a different
API, maybe there's a more efficient way to do this.
However, this is kind of a limitation much like it
doesn't tell me how many times I call a function.
Time profiler doesn't tell me how
many times I try and take a lock.
It's not telling me if I try to take this lock
once and it's simply blocked for seconds at a time.
Or if I tried to take it a million
times and it was actually only blocking
for a microsecond, but all those microseconds added up.
So while I could go ahead right now and start optimizing
this or trying to optimize it, what I would instead do is go
over to system trace because it might show
me something more indicative, more useful,
giving a better idea of what I need to optimize.
Now to do that, to talk to you about system trace, I want to
introduce Eric Miller, one of my coworkers, worked on Shark.
And we'll just jump back to the slides, so he can take you
through what System Trace is and what the results mean.
Eric.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks Wade, appreciate it.
Is this on?
Yeah, I'm just going to dive right into system trace.
I've got plenty of time.
So, System Trace is all about what's
going on in the system with your threads.
Which treads are running, where they're running,
when they're, on what core they're running on.
And in particular, what priority they have over time and
why they change course or why they don't change course.
Now there's several ways to review that data.
And some of them are tables much like
system, much like the time profile.
However the easiest way to look at
this is the System Trace timeline.
In the System Trace timeline, each row in the
table represents one of the threads in the system.
Each of the colored blocks represents some amount
of time a thread was running on a particular core.
In this particular view, the colored
blocks represent the different processors
that a given thread was running on over time.
There are four kinds of events, major kinds
of events that System Trace can show you.
The first of which, oh I skipped ahead of myself.
With regard to this stuff, try to keep your
threads running on their cores as long as possible.
The nice long blue line would be an excellent
example of a long tenure for a thread.
And et cetera.
So when we, when we're working with an
application we want a lot of throughput,
we want to have the long tenure on our core for our thread.
If you have an application on the other hand
that is meant to be responsive to external input,
you would want your threads to block and have short
tenures when they're waiting for input and then have a,
a tenure that's just long enough to get
the work done before the next input comes.
So there's like I mentioned, there's these four
kinds of events, the first of which is system calls.
System calls are basically requests from your,
your source code to the kernel to do work
on your behalf or to make resources available.
Some of the things that you might do quite regularly
that are system calls are read calls and select calls
and IPC programs and the mock messages
which are pervasive throughout Mac OS X.
System calls underlie locks so that pthreadmutext lock
you saw in Wade's trace is a form of a system call.
And because these system calls underlie a number of
resources and you have to go and use protected things
in the kernel, you can definitely
incur what we call a context switch,
which is to say your thread can leave the core
it was running on, be blocked or set aside
by the scheduler while your system call is serviced.
So when things block, they can serialize
your otherwise parallelized thread program.
When we look at system calls, there are a number
of little icons that'll show up in the timeline.
The most common are the BFD system
calls which are the red telephones.
The blue telephones are mock messages and the little
happy Macintosh lock icons will show you lock contention.
When you make one of those pthreadmutetext
lock calls or unlock calls.
And the thing that's interesting about system calls,
as we said they can block, so when that blocking shows
up in the trace timeline, you'll see the
little black underbar leaving the icon
on the left and proceeding to the right.
What that means is that is time that that system
call is blocking the progress of the thread.
And you're not, and some other thread is executing
most likely in the kernel on behalf of your program.
So with regard to these system calls, what we want
to do is try not to use them in time critical areas
and there are a number of slow and blocking system calls.
So we want to know what these are,
learn them through experience.
They change with the platform you're on.
Some platforms are better at servicing
some system calls than others.
So it may vary from say a Mac Book Pro
or an iPhone type device or a Mac Pro.
Now the other type of System Trace event is a
virtual memory fault, is as Wade alluded to.
These occur when you have new pages of
memory being accessed by your program.
There's a couple ways that these comes into play.
When you allocate a block of memory, the first use of
a new allocation will cause that, pages of that data,
4 kilobytes at a time, to be brought
into your application space.
If you share memory with another thread or with another
process, the Virtual Memory Manager will make a copy
of a page for you and bring it into
your space so that you can use that one
and not overwrite the other thread's
access to the same memory space.
And again, one page at a time.
So there's, there's one called a pagein and a pageout.
And these are the most painful virtual memory faults because
what this means is physical memory is over committed.
And the Virtual Memory Manager has to take some pages
from an application, write them out to the hard disk
and bring in pages from another
application that comes to the foreground.
Virtual memory faults look like this.
They look like little pages.
And they have little different icons.
The most obvious one here is the little pink zeroes.
The zeroes are what's called a zero page fill operation.
Most of the time when you allocate a
new piece of memory and begin to use it,
the Virtual Memory Manager will zero out that page.
That is, takes a little bit of time, but you
certainly want a clean slate to work with.
You see little check boxes.
The little check page is a page that was in the Virtual
Memory Manager's data cache but not in your process yet.
So bringing that page back to your
process is page cache hit.
And of course there's a page cache miss as well.
The third type of virtual memory fault we see
here is a little black and white spotted page.
That's a copy on write.
When you share pages, we call that a cow fault.
[ Background noise ]
Thank you.
[ Laughter ]
So Virtual Memory rules of thumb.
Try to minimize the amount of memory in your application
to achieve a minimization of the
number of page faults you take.
I suppose that's fairly obvious.
A good way to avoid this is to reuse memory allocations
if you can, allocate a page of memory, a block of memory
and use it for work and then recycle that same block
to use again for more work as opposed to releasing it
and allocating yet another new block of memory.
If, and also, for audio and video type
applications, anything that's very sensitive to time,
preallocate memory or even wire pages down.
The fourth type of event that I'm
going to talk about is the interrupt.
Interrupts are signals to the processor cores from other
devices in the system including other processor cores.
They're very fast.
But they can take some time if you have a heavy access to
a device, like your network interface or your disk access.
PCI devices also generate lots of interrupts.
The most popular of which is the graphics processor which
sends lots of interrupts to their host core for service.
The cores themselves actually use interrupts to help the
scheduling software manage thread tenures on each core,
every 10 milliseconds a timer is
fired on every core in the system.
The interrupts look like little alarm bells.
And there's not a lot of data about
them other than they occurred.
You typically find them at the
beginning and end of tenures of threads,
as the system has to change what
it's doing when interrupts happen.
So with regard to interrupts, if you've never heard of
interrupts, they probably won't impact your day much.
But if you're a device driver writer or other sort
of developer of a KEXT for software purposes,
your device driver KEXT is going to generate
interrupts to get service from the core.
So you want to try to minimize those and kind of plan them
strategically around what you're trying to get accomplished.
So what I'd like to do now is show a demo.
And hopefully Wade used up all the demo demons.
Let's see.
Letter C.
See, get the right mouse here.
Alright, let's put that away.
I'll going to restart Shark, just for safety purposes.
[ Background noise ]
Although it may help, may or may not help.
So I'm going to switch over to System Trace.
What I want to show you with System
Trace is the mini configuration editor.
The mini configuration editor for any of the configurations
will show you the popular controls that you might want
to modify in order to collect the
information you're interested in.
You can set a start delay to prevent
Shark from starting before you're ready.
You can actually start Shark having a delay of some seconds.
Set a time limit here, it says 10 seconds.
I'm going to change that to 2.
And the sample limit.
That is a per core limit, System Trace
information is collected in every core.
And with 16 cores, you're looking at 16 million
events collected, which could take a while to process.
And while I like a coffee break as
much as the next guy, not all the time.
One thing else I'm going to do is I'm going
to activate signpost which is a fifth type
of System Trace kernel event that you can record.
But signposts are different in that I inject them into the
program on purpose so that I can see them in the time line.
And I'll describe those later.
So let me start the System Trace and start the program in
GCD mode and let it run and grab, I grabbed some samples.
And I only grabbed a few, but that should be sufficient.
[ Period of silence ]
So we see here, this is the summary view in system trace.
And the first thing to look at is
the little pie chart in the corner.
And the little table that goes with it.
That gray area in the pie chart is the
entire system as the name suggests.
93% idle with 16 cores.
And we look, there's a few things going,
even Shark took a little bit of time.
We see this table here has an average,
a minimum and maximum.
This is the length of time each
thread in the process spent on a core.
Averaging 45.7 microseconds out
of a possible 10 milliseconds.
A minimum of 883 nanoseconds with a maximum, we
got a couple of good ones, 13.8 milliseconds.
So that's interesting, but it's
not particularly illustrative.
So I'm going to switch over to the timeline
as I said which is the most popular way
to view the application's results in system trace.
So it's on all processes, so I'm just going to switch
to image aware to kind of clean things up a bit.
Now having done that, let me just grow this
and Wade mentioned the start WQ thread.
And as we said, we use Grand Central Dispatch
in order to achieve, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 working threads.
These, there's this one up here.
This was the master thread that spawned the GCD queues.
This is the graphics thread.
This one is the refreshing drawing thread of our images
that are in the view that you show, those pages popping up.
And lastly, the extra thread that is spawned
to monitor some of the work we're doing.
So and of course if you wrote this application,
you would know which threads were which.
Interestingly, there wasn't a lot happening because
I kind of started Shark and then I pushed the button.
But when you saw in those sample images from the
time line view, they were very thickly colored bars.
And here they're not particular, there's a few
thick bits, but for the most part it's very sparse.
Very sparse indeed.
Now by default, System Trace comes up and doesn't,
it just shows you all the tenures are all one color.
So we can enable thread coloring as you saw in
those samples and now we can taste the rainbow.
We do have 16 cores, all pretty.
So that's why threading is, is, can be relaxing.
[ Laughter ]
Maybe the only aspect.
You can see that the top, the top
bar was, had some thick bits,
but for the most part we have this
very faint pastel looking aspect here.
So I'm going to zoom in on this by using the
mouse and just dragging a thin little sliver.
Then this little sliver will now fill this, the timeline.
See the little gray lines going in between everything?
The little gray lines are context switch marks which means
that this little bit of, of execution was time switched out
and we can trace it down and it
picked up here at this little bit.
You can see that's, it is quite
confusing because it's very busy.
And as Wade alluded to, there's something going on here.
I'm going to zoom in a little more,
let me grab another sliver.
Now I'm grabbing a very small sliver.
Let me point this out.
This fat section here actually has
a tenure of only 2.7 milliseconds.
So that gives you an idea of the scale
of these little slivers of execution.
This sliver here is 7.6, or 35.3 microseconds.
And what I'm doing is I'm reading the results here in
this little info tip, total time, 35.3 microseconds.
Priority, idle, reason blocked.
There's another way to visualize that.
We were coloring by CPU.
If we color by reason why each of these threads is
being context switched away, everything turns hot pink.
Everything's blocked with a few blue exceptions which is an
explicit yield, which generally means that that thread was
at the end of a quantum and had to
be switched off the processor anyway.
So let me just go back to the CPU and
again I'm going to zoom in a bit more.
We'll just use this section here because
we can get the control thread as well.
OK, now we're getting somewhere.
We have a lot more white space than we have colored space.
So at this point, I'm going to turn on the
system call icons we were talking about.
Remember we talked about, we showed these earlier.
You can see here in the top thread, lots of system calls.
Now when you click on a system call, you're
going to get the call stack for that system call.
Each of these events is generated by the kernel in order.
So this is a trace.
It's very precise.
So we can see, we started down here in our application
layer, imageawarecontrollercreateimagefromPDF
and we work all our way back up
to the same thing Wade showed,
this font operations while we're trying to create a PDF.
And down at the bottom of this, you can see the
total time for the system call, 5.9 microseconds.
And then there's arguments to the system calls that
are meaningful in some cases, although not this case.
Locks, here's the lock contention.
For the same reason, we get to a certain point
trying to work with the fonts to create a PDF
and to create glyphs actually, letters in the PDF.
It appears that each letter has to take a lock.
So something's not quite right with that.
But it's what we have to work with.
So now we're pretty sure why the reason is that we have
to waste so much time even though we've got 16 cores.
Now I just turned on the signposts.
I mentioned that there was a fifth type
of event that I can inject and I did.
So we can read these sign posts.
And before, I'm going to click this
just to show you, it has information.
These, this information says arg1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
These are arguments are numbers that
I injected into the system call.
This is the, the arg2 in particular is the particular
instance of a call to, oh I missed it, get over one more.
There's so many things here, I
really need to zoom in some more.
OK, there.
So these are arguments.
Here is my system call which is called additem.
Every time one of the documents showed up in the UI,
I have a sign post that tells me when that happened.
So this is 22, 23, and so on.
Now, another way to, I kind of knew where to drill down
because I put the signposts in, and the way to find them
without just guessing is to use the trace tab which
shows you all the events in order as they were collected.
And then when you inject signposts,
there'll be a signpost tab.
Don't worry about these gray lines.
That's because I only took a partial
trace and so some of them are incomplete.
It's just telling me that.
So here's a dispatch block and additem.
Those are the two signposts I put in.
So I'm going to double click on dispatchblock and somewhere
in this page, Shark has marked that system call for me.
I think. Let me go back one more.
We'll do it again.
This dispatchblock right here.
[ Period of silence ]
There he is.
Dispatchblock, sign post number 39.
This tells me where it came from which is just at the very
beginning of a GCD dispatch queue and I put its tenure ends,
remember I mentioned the little black lines that go under?
Let me turn off system calls for a moment.
So this guy has a tenure of 10.6 milliseconds.
So the dispatch queue began and
10.6 milliseconds and ran all along.
And in that time you can see all
the little bits that occurred.
So what we know now is our problem with our
Image Aware application is the fact that in order
to draw all those little glyphs in our PDFs
that we were processing is quite expensive.
So we aren't getting our full time
share for each of these threads.
We're just getting bits.
We're getting microseconds.
And that is the reason why we have the problem
we do with, with our Image Aware program.
And so it's, but it's not something we can fix.
This is a system library.
So we had to contact the guys that developed
that library and maintain it and we'll be working
with them to speed this up in the future.
Alright, so what I would like to do is show another
application running and grab a System Trace from one
of our tried and true demos from the past.
This here is Noble Ape and these are apes running
around on an island, simulating ape thoughts.
And by default you can see that we
get, let me set this benchmark up,
it's the single threaded scalar
version oh 20008 thoughts per second.
But if I go ahead and thread this and optimize it, if I
optimize it, now it goes way up to a million and change
and then if I thread that on top
of that, it's vastly improved.
So if I System Trace this guy, I'm
going to make this a little bit longer.
[ Period of silence ]
Alright. When we look at the system when it's running,
we see that in this case we have 69% usage
and Noble Ape itself is that 69% usage.
Noble Ape has many threads.
And these are done by hand with pthreads.
So there are 16 of those and then the main thread.
Let's just take a quick look at that timeline.
And you can see there's a rainbow here, but
the tenures of each thread are much thicker.
And we go in and we see a very nice regimented flow where
each of the slave threads works for a time and then stops
and the master control thread down here does its work.
So once again we turn on the system calls and we see that
at the very, at the end of each of these is going to be
that you know a lock taken and that lock
tenure runs over here until it starts again
because the command thread told it
to from these system calls here.
So this again is a very regular, very regimented
worker, slave or master slave relationship.
Which is what we want to try to achieve.
Since we had total control over all this code, we
actually didn't have to spend much time with worrying
about the various effects of our various system
calls because we implemented them all our self.
So with that I want to go back to the slides.
I think that's right.
Did I get it?
Ah, sweet.
And talk about those signposts.
So here's Wade's demonstration software
and we want to add signposts to it.
And we add a couple of #include files to
get the macros and constants that we need.
And then we can make a system call with
number sys/kdebug trace as the first argument.
Second argument is apps/debugcode macro.
And what's important to notice here
is the little k prepare constant.
That's just a number like 42.
That number is used by the apps/debugcode macro if it has
a debugfunc/startmodifier and a debugfunc/endmodifier used
by Shark to place a signpost and then
draw the tenure between start and end.
The other kind of system call you can make is a
point system call which you saw those in my add item.
It just simply has a different
number than the tenured signposts.
Then you can see again I mentioned
debug func start and func end.
There are those arguments at the bottom of the system calls.
In the case of signposts, you as the developer can
insert values, 4 32-bit values into the signpost.
In this case, we for example in the middle we put units
and we put the increment, we put the average of the results
and we also put the contents of the particular
result we were working on in that loop entry.
So that's in user space, like I
did in the Image Aware application.
If you're a kernel developer, you can just
invoke the kernel debug constant macro directly.
And then you see the appsdebugcode macro and its
Kprepare and debug func start, debug func stop.
But I really want to point out is that the arguments where
you had four in user space there are five in the kernel.
And the fifth one is always a zero.
But new in Snow Leopard, you can actually add signposts to
your detrace scripts by invoking the core profile function.
This will give you.
[ Cheering ]
[ Laughter ]
You're welcome.
This will give you the same, the same results in the system
trace as you would from user space or a kernel extension,
so that you can, you can relate what detrace
is collecting with what Shark collects.
So instead of the start, end, func
end and func start constants,
you use Core Profile Signpost Start,
Core Profile Signpost End.
Now the third type that's not here
is Core Profile Signpost Point.
Other than that, the arguments are the same.
And the four user arguments are
optional in the detrace scripts.
They'll be assigned to zeroes if you don't put them in.
So that's how signposts are implemented in
your code but Shark can't quite see them.
What Shark needs to be able to do is know
what those codes mean when they come in.
So we have to create a signpost name file
at this location in our user home directory.
So you can name that file anything you want.
In fact, you can have multiple files.
But each file has a very simple syntax, a hexadecimal number
which you used in your code and the name that you want
that signpost to have in the display in Shark.
That's about all I had to say about System
Tracing, so we'll go over the other two types
that Wade mentioned briefly, bandwidth
and L2 Cache Miss Profiling.
Processor bandwidth profiling is basically how much
you are utilizing the processor front side buss.
Memory bandwidth is not usually as high as the front side
buss band but then it's primarily due to the frequency
of memory versus the frequency of front side buss.
What you also will find is that the maximum
bandwidth you can achieve varies by platform.
Obviously a 16 core Mac Pro has much
more bandwidth than a 2-core laptop.
And you can't really just take the, you know bytes per
cache line and multiply by the frequency of the buss.
That would be the electrical maximum, but
you won't be able to reach that in practice.
All those interrupts and the timer pops
and that sort of thing will limit that.
So we have a couple of things to tell you about processor
bandwidth and that it's kind of a good thing to remember
that the Intel machines are typically capable of about
90% of that theoretical limit that you can calculate.
And often times, your application will maybe
only use a few hundred megabytes of bandwidth.
That could indicate 2 things.
The first thing being your application is not
bandwidth limited or your application it is limited
in some other way that's preventing
you from achieving bandwidth.
So I just have a couple of pictures
to look at from a bandwidth profile.
This is Image Aware running on a single thread.
And if you look close you can see that the first
number, the first hard line is 500 megabytes per second.
And most of the samples were below that.
Whereas after we used GCD on it and threaded it, we
were able to increase the bandwidth on average at least
to over a gigabyte per second and we got some good spikes
up into the 2500 megabytes per second range and a couple
of spikes way up at 4 gigabytes a second.
But interestingly there are some gaps in the
bandwidth but you see they kind of line up.
So that's kind of the nature of that application.
But bigger is better in terms of
bandwidth in an application like this.
Now I showed you a Noble Apes system trace really for the
reason of showing you this slide which is the bandwidth
from a single thread Noble Ape which is
running around 250 megabytes a second.
Whereas if you, when we optimized and threaded Noble Ape,
you can see we've got some nice spikes that are using most
of the bandwidth up around 5 gigabytes a second
and the average is up around 2 gigabytes a second.
So you can see, that's one of the reasons why Noble Ape
goes so much faster, like 40 times faster because it has
about 12 times as much bandwidth on average
than it does when it's just a single thread.
So L2 Cache Miss Profiling is the last
thing we'd like to talk about briefly.
And L2 Cache Miss Profiling is very
similar in appearance to time profiling.
But instead of showing you how you spend time in a
processor, it shows you when you miss processor cache.
And of course missing the cache means you have to go out
to memory and fetch that line of cache and bring it back.
So there's a couple reasons for that.
One of the common ones is that your data layout in your
application is inefficient or incompatible with the amount
of cache on a processor core has access to or perhaps
the pattern in which you access it is inefficient.
Time profiles won't really show this.
What they tend to show is time spent in
your code that's a little bit mysterious.
It looks like your code is executing albeit slowly.
However, the tool tips in Shark can
definitely help to rule that out or point you
in the direction of taking an L2 Cache Miss Profile.
Most important thing is to keep
your working set within the cache.
I can't stress this enough and I will put my own personal
spin on it and say that when I try to limit working sets
in cache, I consider using half of the reported cache size
because most modern systems have 2 cores sharing L2 Cache.
So if you have the threaded application, your
own threads will be contending for cache lines.
So you don't want your working set of
both threads to be the whole cache,
otherwise they'll simply eject each other
constantly and battle for use of the cache.
And the point of that is to keep things in cache.
And lastly just a brief note.
Garbage collection is an automated process
that comes in and cleans up unused data pools.
And garbage collection will come in sort of unannounced and
can eject data from the cache and cause your application
to miss when garbage collection is complete.
A couple of quick images.
Here is the Image Aware program in GCD mode.
And what we see at the top of the
screen is a chunk of percentage,
almost 40% of the time in our code
from the L2 Cache Miss Profile.
And we look down below, we see
that darn MLSetInterruptsEnabled.
And Wade said that that's an indication
you're using the kernel.
And he knows that because Shark
already told him ahead of time.
This method disables or enables
interrupts, et cetera, et cetera.
And you look at the last system.
It says to get a better idea what's
happening, try using System Trace.
So Shark will point you in the right direction.
On the other hand, if you look at a time profile of the
same application, you see slightly different numbers.
51% in our app and only 9% in the interrupts.
But that's where time was spent as
opposed to where cache was missed.
But you can see that cache misses make
up the bulk of the problem in our method.
So with that I'm just going to wrap things up.
And sort of reflect on Time Profiling as being
very useful and System Trace is really good
for these application types, multithreading,
OI heavy and real time.
I was going to make a joke about hyphens, but they
left some out on the slides, multithreaded, IO heavy.
If it has a hyphen in it, use System Trace.
Bandwidth and Cache Miss Profiles, we saw those.
Those will help you categorize your data sets
and see if you're on the right track in terms
of utilizing the availability in the system.
And Shark does a lot more than we've talked about today.
I can't stress enough that you can take
a look through our wonderful user guide.
Lastly, just want to point out that we're all
here for your help, edification, to help you.
Mike Jurewitz is our evangelist and he's always online.
You can reach Wade and I and the other
developers at perftools-feedback@group.apple.com.
And the documentation is available in the help
menu in Shark and online in developer.apple.com.